Banks providing mobile banking services shall comply with the following security principles and practices for the authentication of mobile banking transactions:
a) All mobile banking transactions shall be permitted only by validation through a two factor authentication.
b) One of the factors of authentication shall be mPIN or any higher standard.
c) Where mPIN is used, end to end encryption of the mPIN is desirable, i.e. mPIN shall not be in clear text anywhere in the network.
d) The mPIN shall be stored in a secure environment.
4. Proper level of encryption and security shall be implemented at all stages of the transaction processing. The endeavor shall be to ensure end-to-end encryption of the mobile banking transaction. Adequate safe guards would also be put in place to guard against the use of mobile banking in money laundering, frauds etc. The following guidelines with respect to network and system security shall be adhered to:
a) Implement application level encryption over network and transport layer encryption wherever possible.
b) Establish proper firewalls, intruder detection systems (IDS), data file and system integrity checking, surveillance and incident response procedures and containment procedures.
c) Conduct periodic risk management analysis, security vulnerability assessment of the application and network etc at least once in a year.
d) Maintain proper and full documentation of security practices, guidelines, methods and procedures used in mobile banking and payment systems and keep them up to date based on the periodic risk management, analysis and vulnerability assessment carried out.
e) Implement appropriate physical security measures to protect the system gateways, network equipments, servers, host computers, and other hardware/software used from unauthorized access and tampering. The Data Centre of the Bank and Service Providers should have proper wired and wireless data network protection mechanisms.
5. The dependence of banks on mobile banking service providers may place knowledge of bank systems and customers in a public domain. Mobile banking system may also make the banks dependent on small firms (i.e mobile banking service providers) with high employee turnover. It is therefore imperative that sensitive customer data, and security and integrity of transactions are protected. It is necessary that the mobile banking servers at the bank’s end or at the mobile banking service provider’s end, if any, should be certified by an accredited external agency. In addition, banks should conduct regular information security audits on the mobile banking systems to ensure complete security.
6. For mobile banking facilities which do not contain the phone number as identity, a separate login ID and password is desirable to ensure proper authentication.